\section{White- and Blacklist}
As described in \cref{sec:restrictions} the system should implement a
form of restriction though white and black listing. An obvious
implementation is to whitelist and blacklist specific tracks in the
music catalogue. Making such a filter could be a very tedious process
with a very large music catalogue. Somehow easing the process of
making restrictions would be beneficial for the administrator. This
could be implemented by allowing for creation of coarser
restrictions. The coarser restrictions are based on meta data related
to the tracks.
Spotify provides very limited meta data in their database of music,
but does include the most significant ones such as, what album the
track is on, the artists who made the track, if it is explicit, the
duration of the track and occasionally the genre and
popularity. Further tags and meta data could be provided by a third
party database, such as
Musicbrainz\footnote{\url{https://musicbrainz.org/}}. Utilisation of
another provider of meta data, was concluded to be outside of the
scope of the project, as meta data is available through Spotify. To
avoid that the same track is found across both databases, an
International Standard Recording Code (ISRC) is provided from
Spotifyâ€™s database. This can be used to uniquely identifying a music
track across multiple databases \cite{isrc}. This is elaborated upon
in \cref{sec:duplicates}.

The restrictions are implemented as a list of predicates, that each individual track must satisfy in order to be added to the playlist. These predicates return boolean value indicating whether a track is allowed e.g. by evaluating the artists of the track, if a blacklisted artist occurs on the track. When the user is searching for a track, it will be marked as not available to explicitly state that the track was indeed found in the music catalogue, but is not allowed to be played at the specific venue. This is done in order to minimize any confusion during the search phase.
