\section{Next Track From History Algorithm}
\label{sec:algorithm}

The music at a bar should never stop playing as described in
\cref{musthave}. Specifically this means that, when there is not voted
on any track on the current playlist, the system should not stop
playing. In \cref{sub:MusicFlow} it's described that the music may not
suddenly change genre. To handle this, an algorithm was designed to
choose a track similarly to the previously played tracks. The
algorithm described as pseudo code in \cref{alg:smartfind} should
prevent sudden changes in genre.

As users vote on tracks, patterns in the music style
emerges. \cref{alg:smartfind} uses this pattern to find the next track
to play. Spotify does not contains meta data about which songs are
related. Instead, Spotify has meta data about related artists, so the
algorithm looks at the artists of the nine last played tracks at lines
2 to 7. These artists have some related artists, which are iterated
through at line 8. The most related artist among the nine tracks will
be chosen. At line 15 to 17, the most related artist are chosen, and
the first top tracks which haven't been played are chosen to be played
next at line 18 to 20. In order to make the algorithm chose the
highest rated track, the for each loop at line 18 has to run
sequentially.

\begin{algorithm}[hbtp]
\caption{Algorithm for finding the next track to be played, if the playlist is empty.}\label{alg:smartfind}
\begin{algorithmic}[1]
	\Function{nextTrack}{$trackHistory$} \Comment{$trackHistory$ is a list of previously played tracks.}
		\State{$tracksToLookAt = 9$}
		\State{$l = empty$ $list$}
		\If{$trackHistory.length < tracksTolookAt$}
			\State{$tracksToLookAt = trackHistory.length$}
		\EndIf{}
		\For{$i = 0$ \textbf{to} $tracksToLookAt$}
			\ForAll{$artist$ \textbf{in} $trackHistory[i].Artists$}
				\ForAll{$relatedArtist$ \textbf{in} $artist.relatedArtists$}
					\If{$l.contains(relatedArtist)$}
						\State{$relatedArtist.count += 1$}
					\Else{}
						\State{$l.add(relatedArtist)$}
						\State{$relatedArtist.count = 1$}
					\EndIf{}
				\EndFor{}
			\EndFor{}
		\EndFor{}
		\State{$x = null$}
		\ForAll{$artist$ \textbf{in} $l$}
			\If{$x = null$ || $artist.count > x.count$}
				\State{$x = artist$}
			\EndIf{}
		\EndFor{}
		\ForAll{$track$ \textbf{in} $x.top$}
			\If{$!trackHistory.contains(track)$}
			\State{}\Return{$track$}
			\EndIf{}
		\EndFor{}
	\EndFunction{}
\end{algorithmic}
\end{algorithm}
